* Proposers are encouraged to make clear in the technical justification section any constraints about how
observing time could be broken into smaller pieces without adversely affecting the proposed science;
include information as relevant regarding maximum elapsed time of a split schedule and minimum scheduling block length


Here are some commonly made errors that you should avoid:
RFI The proposer does not investigate the RFI environment of the GBT before writing the proposal.
See § 8.
Mapping Rate The proposer does not use realistic mapping rates. See the map planning tool at
http://www.gb.nrao.edu/ rmaddale/GBT/GBTMappingCalculator.html.29
Scanning too fast during map If there are large changes in motion that occurr on timescales less
than 30 seconds apart, you can excessivley stress the GBT structure. Check with a GBT support
scientist if you wish to see if you can have large motions on timescales less than 30 seconds apart
without affecting the telescope.
Too many IF Signals The proposer asks for too many IF inputs into a backend.
Single polarizations The proposer asks for single polarization.
Incorrect Signal-to-Noise Estimate Did you perform the sensitivity calculations correctly? Many
continuum observers forget to consider 1/f noise and source confusion.
Overhead not estimated The proposer does not include an estimate of the overhead time in their
proposal.
Full Stokes The proposer asks for full Stokes parameters from backends that can’t do this. Currently
VEGAS can be used for polarization observations.
Bad Sessions Did you accidently create bad sessions by including all sources in all sessions or including
all receiver in all sessions?


So you have finished writing a brilliant scientific justification that is sure to result in a ground-breaking
result and you are ready to submit, but have you written a clear, detailed technical justification? Failure
to address technical issues in your proposal could result in not getting all of your requested time or
discovering that your simple one hour observation really required 100 hours to get the desired signal-to-
noise or learning that you are requesting an unavailable observing configuration. Here are a few simple
suggestions for writing a clear technical justification:
Assumptions Clearly state all assumptions including observing frequency, observing mode (the most
common are position-switching, frequency-switching, nodding for dual-beam receivers, and map-
ping), the desired bandwidth and frequency resolution, and the total observing time required to
reach your desired sensitivity. When giving sensitivities, it is easier to confirm the values if you
present the rms noise per channel for a default configuration of the telescope before smoothing.
Then you state how much smoothing is desired to reach your final sensitivity. The technical jus-
tification should state the resulting signal-to-noise of the observation and whether it is a peak or
integrated value. If it is integrated a linewidth should be provided. If these values are presented
for each source and each frequency to be observed, then it will be much easier to confirm the
calculations in your proposal and you may even catch some mistakes before submission.
Receiver and Backend Availability Make sure that you are requesting an available receiver and
backend configuration.
Overhead Be sure to clearly state what your overhead request is. Overheads can range from 10% at
low frequencies up to 50% at high frequencies where frequent pointing and focus observations are
needed.
If you follow these simple suggestions, then you are much more likely to get the proper amount of
observing time for your project.


********


Should only an upper limit be measured, will this have scientific value and meaning?

Specify at the appropriate place  in the cover sheet if your team contains a student who will use the results towards their thesis. It can only help.

GBT Gregorian receivers (primarily, but not limited to, Ku, Ka, Q and W) may only be availableduring a few short, two or three week periods during the semester.


Observers with proposals below 26 GHz must provide full justification in their proposals if they require nighttime observing.
